[18.0][MIG] mail_layout_force: Migration to 18.0 (#160)
OCA/mail: mail_layout_force/readme/CONFIGURE.md

To configure a forced layout for email templates:

1. Go to *Settings > Technical > Email > Email Templates*
2. Open the desired `email.template` record
3. In the *Settings* tab, find the *Force Layout* field

You can leave it empty to use the default email layout (chosen by Odoo).
You can force a custom email layout of your own. You can use the *Mail:
No-Layout notification template* to prevent Odoo from adding a layout.

To configure a custom layout of your own, some technical knowledge is
needed. You can see how the existing layouts are defined for details or
inspiration:

- `mail.mail_notification_layout`
- `mail.mail_notification_layout_with_responsible_signature`
- `mail.mail_notification_light`

To force a custom layout for emails that do not use an existing `email.template`
record (e.g., emails sent from the chatter), you can use the Layout Mapping feature:

1. Go to *Settings > Technical > User Interface > Views*

> 2. Copy the current layout (e.g., `mail.message_notification_email`) to create a new custom layout, and customize it as needed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Copy the current layout (e.g., `mail.mail_notification_layout_with_responsible_signature`) to create a new custom layout, and customize it as needed
```
v18 code does not have `mail.message_notification_email`.

Author: You are right. Updated.

To configure a forced layout for email templates:

1. Go to *Settings > Technical > Email > Email Templates*
2. Open the desired `email.template` record
3. In the *Settings* tab, find the *Force Layout* field

You can leave it empty to use the default email layout (chosen by Odoo).
You can force a custom email layout of your own. You can use the *Mail:
No-Layout notification template* to prevent Odoo from adding a layout.

To configure a custom layout of your own, some technical knowledge is
needed. You can see how the existing layouts are defined for details or
inspiration:

- `mail.mail_notification_layout`
- `mail.mail_notification_layout_with_responsible_signature`
- `mail.mail_notification_light`

To force a custom layout for emails that do not use an existing `email.template`
record (e.g., emails sent from the chatter) or for cases where emails are sent
directly via `message_post` without opening the mail composer (e.g., invoice send

> actions like `action_invoice_sent`), you can use the Layout Mapping feature:

Reviewer 2: Could we extend message_post() to prioritize the forced layout when template is available? This config advice is not admin friendly as you wouldn't know how layout is hard-coded unless you read the code.

Author: For extending message_post(), the challenging part is we can't know or get which template is passed. Only email_layout_xmlid is passed when calling message_post().
